Update 'Running a Fabric Application' tutorial for Fabric Gateway (#3110)
hyperledger/fabric: docs/source/write_first_app.rst

Running a Fabric Application
############################
.. note:: If you're not yet familiar with the fundamental architecture of a
          Fabric blockchain network, you may want to visit the :doc:`key_concepts` section
          prior to continuing.

          It is also worth noting that this tutorial serves as an introduction
          to Fabric applications and uses simple smart contracts and
          applications. For a more in-depth look at Fabric applications and
          smart contracts, check out our :doc:`developapps/developing_applications` section.

This tutorial provides an introduction to how Fabric applications interact
with deployed blockchain networks. The tutorial uses sample programs built using the

> Fabric Gateway application API -- described in detail in the :doc:`/developapps/application` topic --

Reviewer: The Gateway API is not described in detail in Developing Applications (at this point), so I'd remove these links. I think we can just keep the link in the Note at the top of the topic.

Reviewer: Actually it's this reference I suggested removing since the Gateway API is not "described in detail" in Developing Applications.

Author: My bad, removed this reference too.

to invoke a smart contract, which queries and updates the ledger with the smart
contract API -- described in detail in :doc:`/developapps/smartcontract`.

**About Asset Transfer**

> The Asset Transfer (basic) sample demonstrates how to initialize a ledger with assets, then query, create and update

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Asset Transfer (basic) sample demonstrates how to create, update, and query assets.
```

assets. It involves the following two components:

  1. **Sample application:** which makes calls to the blockchain network, invoking transactions
  implemented in the smart contract. The application is located in the following ``fabric-samples`` directory:

  .. code-block:: text

    asset-transfer-basic/application-gateway-typescript

  2. **Smart contract:** which implements the transactions that interact with the
  ledger. The smart contract is located in the following ``fabric-samples`` directory:

  .. code-block:: text

    asset-transfer-basic/chaincode-(typescript, go, java)

For this example, we will be using the TypeScript smart contract.

This tutorial consists of two principle parts:

  1. **Set up a blockchain network.**
  Our application needs a blockchain network to interact with, so we will launch a basic network and deploy a smart
  contract for our application.

  .. image:: images/AppConceptsOverview.png

  2. **Run the sample application to interact with the smart contract.**
  Our application will use the assetTransfer smart contract to create, query, and update assets on the ledger. We will

>   step through the code of the application and the transactions it invokes, including initializing the ledger with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  step through the code of the application and the transactions it invokes, including creating some initial
```

  assets, querying an asset, querying a range of assets, creating a new asset, and transferring an asset to a new owner.

After completing this tutorial you should have a basic understanding of how Fabric applications and smart contracts
work together to manage data on the distributed ledger of a blockchain network.

Before you begin
================

> In addition to the standard :doc:`prereqs` for Fabric, this tutorial leverages the Hyperledger Fabric client API for Node.

Reviewer: Should we call it "Fabric Gateway application API" consistently?

Author: That doesn't match the API documentation, which consistently uses "client API", but we can consistently call it "application API" in the docs to better distinguish it from the contract API.

See the `documentation <https://hyperledger.github.io/fabric-gateway/>`_ for a up to date list of supported programming
language runtimes and dependencies.

- Ensure you have a suitable version of Node installed. Instructions for installing Node can be found in the `Node.js
  documentation <https://nodejs.dev/learn/how-to-install-nodejs>`_.

- If you are on Windows, you can use npm to install the `windows-build-tools <https://github.com/felixrieseberg/windows-build-tools#readme>`_
  which installs all required compilers and tooling by running the following command:

  .. code-block:: bash

    npm install --global windows-build-tools

- If you are on Linux, you need to install `Python v2.7 <https://www.python.org/download/releases/2.7/>`_, `make <https://www.gnu.org/software/make/>`_,
  and a C/C++ compiler toolchain such as `GCC <https://gcc.gnu.org/>`_. You can run the following command to install

>   the other tools:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  these tools:
```

Let's take a look at the sample TypeScript application files we will be using in this tutorial. Run the following
command to list the files in this directory:

.. code-block:: bash

  ls

You should see the following:

.. code-block:: text

  dist
  node_modules
  package-lock.json
  package.json
  src
  tsconfig.json

The ``src`` directory contains the client application source code. The JavaScript output generated from this source
code during the install process is located in the ``dist`` directory, and can be ignored.

Run the sample application
==========================
When we started the Fabric test network earlier in this tutorial, several identities were created using the Certificate
Authorities. These include a user identity for each of the organizations. The application will use the credentials
of one of these user identities to transact with the blockchain network.

Let's run the application and then step through each of the interactions with the smart contract functions. From the
``asset-transfer-basic/application-gateway-typescript`` directory, run the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

  npm start

> First, establish a gRPC connection to the Gateway

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, establish a gRPC connection to the Gateway service on a peer
```

I think we need to make it clear that Fabric Gateway runs on a peer. After the first couple mentions, we can simply call it "Gateway" in later references. We did the same thing for the peer topic.

Author: As before, discussing peers was confusing so it's avoided.

Reviewer: @joshhus What is the concern? I think it is more confusing to avoid using the term peer. For the peer topic, the resolution was to use language like "Gateway service running on a peer". If we don't do some kind of clarification like this, people will get the impression that the Gateway is its own runtime component. Or worse, might think we're talking about the Gateway within the client SDK since that is what it used to be called.

-------------------------------------------------

> The client application establishes a `gRPC <https://grpc.io/>`_ connection to the Fabric Gateway that it will use to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The client application establishes a `gRPC <https://grpc.io/>`_ connection to the Fabric Gateway service running on a peer that it will use to
```

Author: Talking about peers raised comments before so I'm avoiding it wherever possible.

Reviewer: Same

the Gateway's TLS certificate. Since the client accesses the Gateway's Docker container at a ``localhost`` address, a
gRPC option is specified to force this endpoint address to be interpreted as the Gateway's configured hostname.

.. code-block:: TypeScript

  const peerEndpoint = 'localhost:7051';

  async function newGrpcConnection(): Promise<grpc.Client> {
      const tlsRootCert = await fs.readFile(tlsCertPath);
      const tlsCredentials = grpc.credentials.createSsl(tlsRootCert);
      return new grpc.Client(peerEndpoint, tlsCredentials, {
          'grpc.ssl_target_name_override': 'peer0.org1.example.com',
      });
  }

Second, create a Gateway connection
-----------------------------------
The application then creates a ``Gateway`` connection, which it uses to access any of the ``Networks`` (analogous to
channels) accessible to the Fabric Gateway, and subsequently smart ``Contracts`` deployed to those networks. A Gateway
connection has three requirements:

  1. gRPC connection to the Fabric Gateway.
  2. Client identity used to transact with the network.
  3. Signing implementation used to generate digital signatures for the client identity.

> A hash implementation can also be specified. The default implementation will typically be sufficient.

Reviewer: I don't know what this means. Either remove it or explain it.

Third, access the smart contract to be invoked
----------------------------------------------
The sample application uses the ``Gateway`` connection to get a reference to the ``Network`` and then the default
``Contract`` within a chaincode deployed on that network.

.. code-block:: TypeScript

  const channelName = 'mychannel';
  const chaincodeName = 'basic';

  const network = gateway.getNetwork(channelName);
  const contract = network.getContract(chaincodeName);

When a chaincode package includes multiple smart contracts, you can provide both the name of the chaincode and the name
of a specific smart contract as arguments to the `getContract() <https://hyperledger.github.io/fabric-gateway/main/api/node/interfaces/Network.html#getContract>`_
call. For example:

.. code-block:: TypeScript

  const contract = network.getContract('chaincodeName', 'smartContractName');

Fourth, populate the ledger with sample assets
----------------------------------------------
Immediately after initial deployment of the chaincode package, the ledger is empty. The application uses
``submitTransaction()`` to invoke the ``InitLedger`` transaction function, which populates the ledger with some sample

> data. ``submitTransaction()`` will use the Gateway to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
assets. ``submitTransaction()`` will use the Gateway to:
```

>   1. Endorse the transaction proposal.

Reviewer: I think it makes sense to explain this at a high level (one paragraph), even though it is described in other key concepts topics in more detail.
e.g. something at this level of detail "submitTransaction() will request the targeted Gateway peer to execute the chaincode and gather endorsements from the required number of peers to meet the endorsement policy (in our case the Org1 gateway peer as well as the Org2 peer), then will sign the transaction."

Author: It was described at a high level previously but was deemed confusing, so avoided.

Reviewer: @joshhus what was the concern? A sentence or two would definitely help here. Feel free to propose an edit to what I suggested.

Reviewer 2: The discussion here was that it initially read as if an "endorsement" by one peer / org then leads to a commitment to the ledger. Without a full understanding of endorsement and endorsement policies, that sounded potentially misleading to me. We discussed this when reviewing the other topics also - endorsement by one org does not mean the Tx passes endorsement (policies). So generally a semantics issue of being imprecise with the word "endorsed" in different contexts.

Author: Actually the comments before were on whether the brief description of executing the transaction on peers matched the description of the endorsement process we already have in other pages.

My intent with this list of steps is to signpost the following application flow, which is what gets executed when you call `submitTransaction()`, not to describe the transaction flow at the server side:
- [endorse()](https://hyperledger.github.io/fabric-gateway/main/api/node/interfaces/Proposal.html#endorse)
- [submit()](https://hyperledger.github.io/fabric-gateway/main/api/node/interfaces/Transaction.html#submit)
- [getStatus()](https://hyperledger.github.io/fabric-gateway/main/api/node/interfaces/SubmittedTransaction.html#getStatus) to wait for the transaction commit

Understanding the application API flow is important for interpreting error types that may be generated by that flow, touched on in the last step.

  2. Submit the endorsed transaction to the ordering service.
  3. Wait for the transaction to be committed, updating ledger state.

Sample application ``InitLedger`` call:

.. code-block:: TypeScript

  await contract.submitTransaction('InitLedger');

Fifth, invoke transaction functions to read and write assets
------------------------------------------------------------

> Now the application is ready to execute business logic that queries, creates and modifies assets on the ledger by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now the application is ready to execute business logic that queries, creates additional assets, and modifies assets on the ledger by
```

invoking transactions functions on the smart contract.

Query all assets
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The application uses ``evaluateTransaction()`` to query the ledger by performing a read-only transaction invocation.

> ``evaluateTransaction()`` will use the Gateway to execute the transaction function and return its result. The

Reviewer: "execute the transaction" sounds like we are submitting a transaction. Should we instead say something like "invoke the chaincode to query the ledger"?

Author: Changing "execute" to "invoke". The previous sentence describes that this is a read-only transaction invocation to query the ledger. The APIs and this tutorial use smart contracts, not chaincode.

in this tutorial. Run the following command to list the files in this directory:

.. code-block:: bash

  ls

You should see the following:

.. code-block:: text

  dist
  node_modules
  package-lock.json
  package.json
  src
  tsconfig.json

The ``src`` directory contains the client application source code. The JavaScript output generated from this source
code during the install process is located in the ``dist`` directory, and can be ignored.

When we started the Fabric test network back in the first step, several identities were created using the Certificate
Authorities. These include a user identity for each of the organizations. The application will use the credentials
of one of these user identities to transact with the network.

Let's run the application and then step through each of the interactions with the smart contract functions. From the
``asset-transfer-basic/application-gateway-typescript`` directory, run the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

  npm start

First, the application creates a gRPC connection to the Gateway peer
--------------------------------------------------------------------

> The client application establishes a `gRPC <https://grpc.io/>`__ connection to the Gateway peer that it will use to

Reviewer 2: so in markdown you can publish an active link like this: 
[gRPC}(https://grpc.io/)

Reviewer 2: so for capitalization, terminology, and punctuation we are using any of the following: 
"Fabric Gateway"
"the Fabric Gateway service"
"the gateway" 
"peer" 
"target peer" 
We are not using "gateway peer" because all peers are gateway peers in 2.4
So in line 214 e.g., delete Gateway. And here the peer that gets the connection is the "target peer". ... so "connection to the target peer"

Author: This isn't a markdown file.

All peers are Gateway peers by default, but the Gateway service can be disabled on any peer. **But** I'm happy referring to Fabric Gateway.

> transact with the network. To do this it only requires the endpoint address of the Gateway peer and, if the Gateway is

Reviewer 2: do you want to say "with the channeL" here instead of "with the network"? technically it's the channel right, which may not be the entire network of channels.

Reviewer 2: and also "target peer and, if the gateway is ..."

Author: No, it doesn't restrict the client to interacting with a single channel.

configured to use TLS, appropriate TLS certificates to establish a secure connection. There is significant overhead
associated with establishing gRPC connections, so this connection should be retained by the application and shared by
all Gateway connections to the Gateway peer.

> .. note:: In order to maintain security of any private data used in transactions, the application should connect to a

Reviewer 2: suggest changing "note:" to "Attention:"

Author: Changed to warning since that is the only option other than note.

          Gateway peer belonging to the same organization as the client identity. If the client identity's organization

>           does not host any peers then a Gateway peer hosted by an upstream organization through which the client's

Reviewer 2: peers, 

(add comma)

Reviewer 2: dyk if "upstream" is used in docs? I can check.
Wondering if this is correct/works: ... " ... does not host any peers, then a trusted peer in another organization can be used."

          organization is authorized to transact should be used.

> The TypeScript application creates a gRPC connection using the TLS certificate of the Certificate Authority for the

Reviewer 2: "The TypeScript application creates a gRPC connection using the TLS certificate from the target peer organization's Certificate Authority to verify the authenticity of the peer's credentials."
(@bestbeforetoday this may need work but you get the idea to try to condense it.)

Gateway peer's organization, so that the authenticity of the peer's credentials can be verified. Since the Docker

> container hosting the Gateway peer is reached at a ``localhost`` address, a gRPC option is specified to force this

Reviewer 2: Let's try to rephrase / simplify this long sentence. Maybe use 2 sentences or a semicolon;

endpoint address to be interpreted as the hostname in the peer's TLS certificate, allowing the TLS connection to be
successfully established.

.. code-block:: TypeScript

  const peerEndpoint = 'localhost:7051';

  async function newGrpcConnection(): Promise<grpc.Client> {
      const tlsRootCert = await fs.readFile(tlsCertPath);
      const tlsCredentials = grpc.credentials.createSsl(tlsRootCert);
      return new grpc.Client(peerEndpoint, tlsCredentials, {
          'grpc.ssl_target_name_override': 'peer0.org1.example.com',
      });
  }

> Second, the application creates a Gateway connection

Reviewer 2: Is this step 2 / section heading maybe.

----------------------------------------------------

The application then creates a Gateway connection, which the application uses to access any of the networks

> (analogous to channels) accessible to the Gateway peer, and smart contracts deployed to those networks. A Gateway

Reviewer 2: I think of a channel as more of a "sub-network" in the single overall network. 
Is this connection different than the gRPC connection above? 
Use "Fabric Gateway connection" first instance in a section, and then "gateway connection" following.

Author: It is different to a gRPC connection. I've reworded to (hopefully) make it clearer.

> connection requires three things:

Reviewer 2: connection has three requirements:

  1. gRPC connection to the Gateway peer.
  2. Client identity used to transact with the network.
  3. Signing implementation used to generate digital signatures for the client identity.

> In addition to the above, a hash implementation can also be specified. The default implementation will typically be

Reviewer 2: delete "to the above"

sufficient.

> The sample application uses an X.509 certificate for the Org1 user identity, and a signing implementation based on the

Reviewer 2: is this "user" identity for the application?

Author: Yes, re-worded to clarify

> corresponding private key. These credentials are created using the Org1 Certificate Authority when the test network

Reviewer 2: why "test" ?

Author: Because the Fabric sample network is called "test network"

> is started.

Reviewer 2: So needs something like "The following code snippet ... " is what, or does what.

.. code-block:: TypeScript

  const client = await newGrpcConnection();

  const gateway = connect({
      client,
      identity: await newIdentity(),
      signer: await newSigner(),
  });

  async function newIdentity(): Promise<Identity> {
      const credentials = await fs.readFile(certPath);
      return { mspId: 'Org1MSP', credentials };
  }

  async function newSigner(): Promise<Signer> {
      const privateKeyPem = await fs.readFile(keyPath);
      const privateKey = crypto.createPrivateKey(privateKeyPem);
      return signers.newPrivateKeySigner(privateKey);
  }

> Third, the application accesses the smart contract to be invoked

Reviewer 2: Okay so this is the application flow right, for gateway. I think there are 3 phases in the other gateway pages. Are these related to your 3 steps?

Author: No idea. These are the steps from the application perspective when using the client API.

----------------------------------------------------------------

> The sample application uses the Gateway connection to get a reference to the Network and then the default Contract

Reviewer 2: so docs equate "chaincode" with "smart contract" elsewhere, but favor "chaincode". I guess you're saying the app references the smart contract within the chaincode, not the chaincode per se.

Author: There was a big discussion about this several years ago and a push to move the terminology away from the Fabric implementation-centric language to something that make more sense for end users. So the terminology of the Fabric programming model, exposed in the client APIs since v1.4, is Network (corresponding to channel) and Smart Contract. A chaincode package is what you deploy, and that package may contain multiple smart contracts. Often chaincodes only contain a single, default smart contract, in which case there is a one-to-one relationship between chaincode and smart contract. Partly because of this and partly for historic reasons, chaincode and smart contract often get used interchangeably. The world state is namespaced at the chaincode level, so all smart contracts within a given chaincode share the same world state.

within a chaincode deployed on that network.

.. code-block:: TypeScript

  const channelName = 'mychannel';
  const chaincodeName = 'basic';

  const network = gateway.getNetwork(channelName);
  const contract = network.getContract(chaincodeName);

When a chaincode package includes multiple smart contracts, on the `getContract() <https://hyperledger.github.io/fabric-gateway/main/api/node/interfaces/Network.html#getContract>`__
call you can specify both the name of the chaincode and a specific smart contract to target. For example:

.. code-block:: TypeScript

  const contract = network.getContract('chaincodeName', 'smartContractName');

> Fourth, the application initializes the ledger with some sample assets

Reviewer 2: ok, what does it mean to "initialize" the ledger? 
Are we making presumptions about the network that the user would / could run this on - if so let's be clear about what those are at the top / beginning. Maybe I missed it.

Author: It doesn't mean anything beyond what is described for this transaction invocation. I've re-worded to try to make it clearer.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

> Now that we are at the point where we are actually invoking smart contract transactions, let’s

Reviewer 2: How about ... 
"We are now at the point of invoking smart contract transactions. Let's look at them in sequence."  ... or similar.

Author: Removed.

go through them in sequence.

> Immediately after initial deployment of the chaincode, the ledger is empty. The application uses ``submitTransaction()``

Reviewer 2: Okay so this example "initiates" a brand new channel it seems. First transaction sent to the ledger right. Lets get some language at the top start that explains this full scenario and the e2e. If it's not there yet.

Author: No, absolutely not. Your question makes it sound like you have a fundamental mis-understanding about what a channel is.

to invoke the chaincode ``InitLedger`` transaction function, which populates the ledger with some sample data. Behind
the scenes, ``submitTransaction()`` will use the Gateway peer to:

>   1. Endorse the transaction proposal by successfully executing the transaction function on sufficient endorsing peers

Reviewer 2: Okay so these steps we have in the peers page I think. Let's make sure they match / are in sync.

Author: These describe the steps from the application perspective. Simplified description to try to avoid confusion.

     to satisfy the endorsement requirements.
  2. Submit a transaction containing the proposal and endorsements to the ordering service to be included in a block.
  3. Wait for the transaction to be distributed to peers and confirm that the transaction is committed successfully,
     updating ledger state.

Sample application ``InitLedger`` call:

.. code-block:: TypeScript

  await contract.submitTransaction('InitLedger');

> An initialization function to set up initial ledger state would typically be called only once after a smart contract

Reviewer 2: meaning any smart contract is called, the first time this happens, for any smart contract on the channel. ... as opposed to after each s.c. is called for its first invocation.

> is deployed for the first time. A new version of the smart contract would likely not require the initialization to be

Reviewer 2: oh deployed. that's different than invoked right.

Author: Deployed and invoked are not the same thing.

> performed again. In this case it is good practice for the transaction function to check and perhaps also record some

Reviewer 2: tx function being the smart contract code, within the chaincode right.

ledger state on invocation to ensure initialization is not accidentally carried out more than once.

Fifth, the application invokes transaction functions to query and modify assets
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

First, a word about querying the ledger.

> Each peer in a blockchain network hosts a copy of the `ledger <./ledger/ledger.html>`_. An application can query the

Reviewer 2: "channel," if we agree to not equate the entire network with a channel. ...

Author: I don't see how "channel" can be correct here.

Reviewer 2: You can check with others (@denyeart), but my view is that one blockchain "network" can contain multiple channels within it (essentially, sub-networks). In which case, each channel would host a copy of the ledger for that channel, but would not host a copy of the ledger for the whole network, as such a single thing doesn't exist. So it's just a semantics decision.

Author: I agree with the first sentence, although the terminology does not match that of the APIs, which this tutorial is describing. The rest makes no sense to me. The channel is not a physical thing so it can’t hold a copy of any data. Peers are physical things, and each one has a complete copy of the ledger stored on physical storage for each of the channels they belong to.

Please note that This text was already in the tutorial before my PR, and my PR has since removed this text.

most recent data from the ledger using read-only invocations of a smart contract running on your peers.

Here is a simplified representation of how a query works:

.. image:: tutorial/write_first_app.diagram.1.png

The application uses ``evaluateTransaction()`` to query the ledger by performing a read-only transaction function
invocation. Behind the scenes, ``evaluateTransaction()`` will use the Gateway peer to execute the transaction function

> on a suitable peer and return its result. No transaction is sent to the ordering service and no ledger update occurs.

Reviewer 2: what makes a peer suitable, we could state that instead.

Author: We really shouldn't. That's an implementation detail that is intended to be opaque to the client and may change over time. Instead perhaps I'll just list the key steps with less detail, since the detail is covered elsewhere.

      ID: 'asset1',
      Owner: 'Tomoko',
      Size: 5,
      docType: 'asset'
    },
    {
      AppraisedValue: 400,
      Color: 'red',
      ID: 'asset2',
      Owner: 'Brad',
      Size: 5,
      docType: 'asset'
    },
    {
      AppraisedValue: 500,
      Color: 'green',
      ID: 'asset3',
      Owner: 'Jin Soo',
      Size: 10,
      docType: 'asset'
    },
    {
      AppraisedValue: 600,
      Color: 'yellow',
      ID: 'asset4',
      Owner: 'Max',
      Size: 10,
      docType: 'asset'
    },
    {
      AppraisedValue: 700,
      Color: 'black',
      ID: 'asset5',
      Owner: 'Adriana',
      Size: 15,
      docType: 'asset'
    },
    {
      AppraisedValue: 800,
      Color: 'white',
      ID: 'asset6',
      Owner: 'Michel',
      Size: 15,
      docType: 'asset'
    }
  ]

Next, the sample application submits a transaction to create a new asset.

Sample application ``CreateAsset`` call:

.. code-block:: TypeScript

  const assetId = `asset${Date.now()}`;

  await contract.submitTransaction(
      'CreateAsset',
      assetId,
      'yellow',
      '5',
      'Tom',
      '1300',
  );

.. note:: In the application and chaincode snippets above, it is important

>           to note that the sample application submits the ``CreateAsset``

Reviewer 2: oh so you have the special .md syntax for a note? cool.

Author: This is not a markdown file.

          transaction with the same type and number of arguments the chaincode
          is expecting, and in the correct sequence. In this case the correctly sequenced arguments are:
          
          .. code-block:: text
          
            assetId, "yellow", "5", "Tom", "1300"
          

>           because the corresponding chaincode ``CreateAsset`` is expecting the following sequence of arguments that

Reviewer 2: ok we'll make this a complete sentence. Can just delete "because" and use "The corresponding ... "

          define the asset object:
          
          .. code-block:: text

            ID, Color, Size, Owner, AppraisedValue
          

>           Similar to transaction function return values, any data type can be converted to bytes and passed as

Reviewer 2: Section headings might help us - at this point I've read a lot of text since the beginning and am not sure where I am.

Author: This is all within a **note**. I'm not sure if headings within a note work.

Author: Removed the second piece of information to avoid confusion.

          transaction arguments, provided those arguments match what is expected by the transaction function. Since
          strings are commonly used, the application API accepts UTF-8 strings as transaction arguments and converts
          them to bytes internally.

Next, the sample application submits a transaction to transfer ownership of the newly created asset. This time

> the transaction is invoked using ``submitAsync()``, which returns after successfully submitting the endorsed

Reviewer 2: note first time "endorsed" mentioned; may need to add it earlier.

> transaction to the ordering service instead of blocking until the transaction is committed to the ledger. This allows

Reviewer 2: ok, what is blocking. packaging in a block perhaps.

Author: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2407589/what-does-the-term-blocking-mean-in-programming

Author: Changed the wording to make it clearer for non-programmers.

the application to perform work using the submitted transaction result while waiting for it to be committed.

Sample application ``TransferAsset`` call:

.. code-block:: TypeScript

  const commit = await contract.submitAsync('TransferAsset', {
      arguments: [assetId, 'Saptha'],
  });
  const oldOwner = utf8Decoder.decode(commit.getResult());

  console.log(`*** Successfully submitted transaction to transfer ownership from ${oldOwner} to Saptha`);
  console.log('*** Waiting for transaction commit');

  const status = await commit.getStatus();
  if (!status.successful) {
      throw new Error(`Transaction ${status.transactionId} failed to commit with status code ${status.code}`);
  }

  console.log('*** Transaction committed successfully');

Terminal output:

.. code-block:: text

>   *** Successfully submitted transaction to transfer ownership from Tom to Saptha

Reviewer 2: hmmm where are these names / IDs defined.

Author: See the code snippet

  *** Waiting for transaction commit
  *** Transaction committed successfully

The sample application then evaluates a query for the transferred asset, showing that it was both created with the
properties described, and then subsequently transferred to a new owner.

Sample application ``ReadAsset`` call:

.. code-block:: TypeScript

  const resultBytes = await contract.evaluateTransaction('ReadAsset', assetId);

  const resultJson = utf8Decoder.decode(resultBytes);
  const result = JSON.parse(resultJson);
  console.log('*** Result:', result);

Terminal output:

.. code-block:: text

  *** Result: {
      AppraisedValue: 1300,
      Color: 'yellow',
      ID: 'asset1639084597466',
      Owner: 'Saptha',
      Size: 5
  }

> The final part of the sequence demonstrates an error submitting a transaction. In this example, the application attempts

Reviewer 2: Should we mention "the gateway service" here as a player.

to submit an ``UpdateAsset`` transaction but specifies an asset ID that does not exist. The smart contract transaction
function returns an error response, and the ``submitTransaction()`` call fails.

A ``submitTransaction()`` failure may generate several different types of error, indicating the point in the submit flow
that the error occurred, and containing additional information to enable the application to respond appropriately.

> Consult the `API documentation <https://hyperledger.github.io/fabric-gateway/main/api/node/interfaces/Contract.html#submitTransaction>`_

Reviewer 2: [link](link url) should work

Author: This is not a markdown document.

Now that we’ve seen how the sample application and chaincode are written and how they interact with each other, you should have a pretty
good sense of how applications interact with a blockchain network using a smart
contract to query or update the ledger. You’ve seen the basics of the roles

> smart contracts, contract APIs, and application APIs play in queries and updates, and you should

Reviewer 2: hmmm "contract" APIs immediately after smart contracts.

Author: They are not the same thing, like golf and golf clubs both contain "golf" but are not the same thing. The original text used "API" to mean "contract API" and "SDK" to mean "application API". They are both APIs. I'm not keen on the section in general though, so perhaps I can rework to make us both happier.

> have a feel for how different kinds of applications could be used to perform

Reviewer 2: "can" not "could"

> As we said in the introduction, we have a whole section on

Reviewer 2: I'll want to rewrite this one. A lot of words saying less.

Author: Removed.
